---
layout: post
title: "The Meaning of Life"
date: 2015-03-11 12:45:00
tags: philosophy
---
A lot of people think that philosophy is about finding the meaning of life. While that is a major question within the field, philosophy, as the love or quest for knowledge and wisdom, has much more to offer. Science, linguistics, psychology, and even mathematics have their roots in philosophy, and in exploring these and other areas we can form better answers to the traditional philosophy questions in ontology, epistemology, and metaphysics. My studies in these areas have led me to a somewhat simple answer to the question "What is the meaning of life?", and you might feel like it isn't quite a full answer you might be looking for.

If we look at the question, we have to explore the definition of the two concepts involveda; meaning and life. Meaning is "whatever it is that makes what would otherwise be mere sounds and inscriptions into instruments of communication and understanding" according the Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy. While it is a key concept in the philosophy of language, it is also rooted in our consciousness and psychology, for at it's core our brain is a pattern recognizer. I recently read Ray Kurzweil's book "How to Create a Mind" where this process is explained in great detail through the recent advances in psychology and neuroscience. Our brains recognize patterns that it deems are important to our survival, and through this we bestow meaning to those patterns we have encountered. In communication, when we know the meaning of a word, we have encountered it enough times within the system of the language that we can derive the concept or essence of the word. The system in place is important because it is context that allows us to make this inference. For more on this idea, I'd refer you to the works of linguists and philosophers of language such as Wittgenstein and Noam Chomsky. The takeaway is that meaning comes from the context it has within the system.

Turning now to the concept of life, which is too big of an idea to fully explore in this blog post, we must look at what we know through our experience of it. Assuming nothing at all, we may take Descartes line of reasoning "I think therefore I am" to come to a solipsist view of the world. At the core of this philosophy is the isolation of existence, we can only ever know our perspective. Once we make the leap to believe in other's experiences, we must commit ourselves to that inductive reasoning which is the core of science. We find that still life is isolated to this earth, in so far as science has found. Often this is how the question is understood, why are we here in such a seemingly lonely universe. Why is the system of life confined to a single planet in a single solar system of a single galaxy in a universe of infinite such systems? We might not have an answer as of yet, and we fantasize about finding other life forms to negate the question. This is the hope that life is a larger system than the one we know of and experience here on earth, and here lies the key to the answer.

With either perspective we take on the concept of life and existence, we find that it is one of isolation and singularity. So how is it that we could infer the meaning of our lives without knowledge or experience of the system in which it has context? It may be this question cannot be answered, and life is meaningless, as Gödel's Second Incompleteness theorem proves metamathematically a system cannot prove its own consistency, and hence validity. We then are forced to try to understand the systems which we experience, and in this age with the internet we see we are a global society. Our individual purpose or meaning thus comes from how we chose to be a part of this system, and our choices are within the context of our interactions with each other. This is the core of existentialist philosophy found in the works of Sartre, which I will explore further in a future post while examining the nature of free will, string theory, and the multiverse. If we further want a universal meaning, we must strive to understand the larger system our world is a part of through seeking life on other planets, and dedicate to a life of science to achieve this goal.

The point is that we give meaning to our lives through our relationships with each other, and the ideas we share through art and scientific inquiry. We then are free to reject meaninglessness, and conclude that we bestow our own meaning to life, whether that is individualistically or cooperatively in a global community manner.
