---
layout: page
title: Education
weight: 4
image: /images/Education.jpg
---

* ####__Ruby on Rails programming boot camp with the Iron Yard (July 2014 – October 2014)__####  
    I recently decided to learn web development and design to build sites and applications that will enhance the open exchange of ideas and compassion to benefit humanity. I learned many skills during this immersive program, and have applied them in a few projects, including a final one that explored the powers of natural language processors in deciphering the concepts and entities of the articles we read online. My next goal is to provide a platform for the social exchange of knowledge as value, possibly through the implementation of the bitcoin blockchain. The open source mentality of the internet is a core value of my philosophical perspective. Please contact me through one of the links in the navigation to discuss any projects in line with these ideals further.

* ####__Double Major in Logic and Philosophy of Science with Mathematics, Second Class (Division 1) Honors B.Sc., University of St. Andrews, Scotland (June, 2012)__ ####  
    I have dedicated my life to exploring the meaning of life, understanding the mind, the nature of truth, and seeking a proof of a higher consciousness which was supported by a strong affinity for mathematics and logical reasoning with their power to convey knowledge and truth. I sought to study these fields and chose a respected academic institution to discipline myself in these ways of thought. I enjoyed classes on philosophy of mind, epistemology, metaphysics, linguistics, and philosophical methods. The pure mathematics courses explored groups, number theory, algebra and analysis, finite mathematics, and symbolic computation. Senior year I put a capstone on my studies with an advanced logic course where the proofs and deeper implications of Gödel's Incompleteness Theorems were examined, while also directing a project on the philosophical considerations behind the various axiomatizations of set theory and the metamathematical perspectives these gave rise to when viewing set theory as a foundation for mathematics.

* ####__International Baccalaureate Diploma with Honors, 97 GPA, Riverwood International Charter High School (May, 2008)__####  
    High school was a period of growth and development for me, as for most people, by exploring my passions and thinking about the goals I wish to accomplish in life. I participated in clubs such as the Model U.N., Video and Board Games, and Mock Trial; while also spending time volunteering for local parks and shelters. I constantly sought to expand my perspectives, particularly by destroying any biases and by thinking globally. The I.B. program was instrumental in this effort by allowing me to tailor a curriculum where I could learn higher mathematics, theory of knowledge, psychology, physics and chemistry, literature and fluency in the French language. This experience is what set me on the path to attend university in another country, and a general thirst for knowledge.
